Welcome back recruit It's time to quickly cover another fundamental data structure the set sets are
unordered collections of unique elements.
We can construct them by using the set function.
Let's explore some examples in a Jupiter notebook.
Let's begin by constructing a set.
We'll do that using this builtin step function.
Notice how there is syntax highlighting there letting you know that the set as easy as a built in functions
you don't want to accidentally overwrite that.
So you've constructed a set and assigned the variable x.
If you want to add items to the set we can say add 1 and then if I take a look at what my set looks
like.
Notice it uses the same curly braces as a dictionary.
But it doesn't have colons there so it doesn't really have a key value pairs.
It's just an unordered collection of unique elements.
And that's basically the keyword unique elements meaning every element there has to be unique.
So if I try to add in another element such as too no problem I see one and two.
However let's say I try to add one again and take a look at x.
It's still only has a singular one there and that's because we only accept unique elements inside of
a set.
So it doesn't matter how many times I try to add in a one if it's already in there we only have unique
elements meaning we just have 1 1 or 1 2.
This is useful sometimes.
In case you have a list so I'll say my list with many repeated elements so have 1 on 1 and 1 and then
2 2 2 2 2 3 3 3.
And imagine that we only wanted to grab the unique elements out of this list.
I could transform it to a set again using that step function.
I would pass on my list here and I would get back the sets of the unique elements in this case 1 2 and
3.
And then as a last final note for sets I know we showed you how you can quickly create one using this
set function with just an empty thing and then keep adding onto it.
The other thing you can do is just use the actual curly braces themselves so we can say My set is equal
to curly braces and then one two three if we check the type of my set.
It's just a set.
Again the key words to remember is that it's an an ordered collection.
So it's an order that means you can't index things off of a set and it's also only containing unique
elements.
That's the basis of sets.
We'll see at the next lesson.